**Carlo Vicari:** 
everyone welcome to the first episode of
let's talk ET SI podcast I'm here with
dr. Christian Severino we're going to
talk about everything going on in the
fear in classic community and blockchain
in general um guess where your two hosts
I'm my name is Carlo vicari I'm karlovy
ET cie on Reddit and in the theorem
classic slack and I'm here with dr.
Christian Severino he goes by Sabrina
and slack and on reddit also what's
going on Christian

*Christian Seberino:*
 uh doing good as
welcome at Carlo welcome everybody
listening to our first episode and let's
get to it

*Carlo Vicari:* 
 yeah so um this podcast we're
just going to be going over some of the
things that are going on inside the
community and going over some of the
development stuff and you know what's
kind of happening recently what's going
on now and what might be going on in the
future so um let's get to it uh you know
first thing on the board is a you know
the newsletter that was released earlier
this week which had a lot to cover I
know you checked it out Christian we got
a lot of good feedback about it

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah

*Carlo Vicari:*
you know it covered stuff talking about
the bomb delay that was cooked into the
last protocol update which a lot of
people um I guess weren't necessarily
aware of but we've been trying to get
the word out there about that bomb delay
being part of the last update it's
delayed until late 2017 for anybody
listening that wasn't aware also there's
going to be another update coming in
January to fix the replay attack issues
as far as the replay attack issues that
enemy fixing Christian for anyone who's
listening um what you wrote wrote an
article about that too which was pretty
cool so we'll be sure to include that in
description tell everybody kind of us
going on with that

*Christian Seberino:*
 yes so the replay
attack involved the fact that you could
take a transaction from either system
the etherium classic or the etherium
with the fork and play on the
on the other system and it would accept
it and the reason is because there was
no enforcement of the nonces being
different across the systems and there's
more in my article about that and how to
protect yourself from that you basically
have to move your currency to or your
ether to a different address that's not
vulnerable and so sure to check that out
if that's something you might

*Carlo Vicari:*
 cool cool

*Christian Seberino:*
um oh by the way other than one point oh
you're um yeah this develop yeah this
development report that you're talking
about is very nice because otherwise you
have to go to lots of different places
to find out what's all this stuff that's
happening so this is a very nice summary
of what you would find doing all that
work right digging through like you've
done the different sources

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah yeah
we're trying to consolidate as much
stuff as possible and um you know trying
to get some more info out there and some
more things that are going on inside the
community

*Christian Seberino:*
 because nobody had the ability
to keep up with everything I know you as
part of your job your kind of involved
in lots of different things going on but
maybe everybody doesn't have the ability
to say on top of all this like you do

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah yeah I mean that's what it's all
about and also this podcasters was a
great idea uh you know trying to get
everybody that's interested in YouTube
and podcasts and stuff like that um
maybe you know a different medium than
the standard newsletter and reading and
emails and stuff like that

 *Christian Seberino:*
 yeah I don't
know how everybody else but that I
sometimes don't have time to read as
much as I'd like you but what I find
myself doing when I find a podcast that
I like is all I'll uh I'll copy it the
mp3 to my smartphone and then played in
the car on a bike commute and that's
some time that

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah definitely

*Christian Seberino:*
 would
have been wasted anyway and I've learned
a lot about epc that way son

*Carlo Vicari: *
 um okay so
the next thing on the development report
that I want to talk about this is this
is the cool one this is the one that
everybody's focusing and talking about
ever since the
protocol update went through um it's
about monetary policy

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah

*Carlo Vicari: *

and normally this would be a boring thing and probably to a lot of my friends that aren't in the block chain space this would be a boring subject but for everybody that's interested in ET SI and interested in Bitcoin blockchain and you know all that's good stuff um it looks like a lot of the community and a lot of the people involved in this are leaning heavily in favor of a cap supply which is um we're getting a lot of great responses from the Asian community and well international community in general as well as a you know domestic North America South America and stuff like that so uh I don't know who you've been speaking to but i'm sure you've gotten a lot of great feedback as well right.

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah
yeah and i think that the cap is a great
idea i'm i'm hesitant to make any
pronouncements in the area of monetary
policy because they are not what my PhD
is in but them let me just say that my
sense and if people disagree with me
they're free to disagree in the comments
section but my sense is so blockchains
allow us to do a lot of things without
anybody in control that was a big point
of my last paper that I wrote and so
monday the the debate with monetary
policy one of the debates is do we want
a bunch of elites trying to manipulate
the economy in a good way right the
benevolent dictator type idea or do we
just want to let distribute the power
and let think the chips fall where they
may and my sense i think Satoshi would
agree with me i think the the
cryptocurrency community leans towards
right distributing power don't let
anybody being controlled and they're not
a big fan of this benevolent dictator
idea and we want to have a monetary
policy where it's specified in advance
what's going to happen everybody knows
that you know when when the ether the
supply is going to grow and we don't
have somebody that can have
the power to say oh you know today I
feel like increasing the money supply by
sams I think that yeah with it what
happened in the last few years with the
the Federal Reserve I think there's a
real that's just a sore spot with a lot
of people

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah yeah definitely I mean
that's that's where you know even though
the original white paper for Bitcoin
talked about a lot of that stuff so yeah
I think I think it's a great direction
as well and I know what you mean you
know I I'm not an economist or anything
like that but uh you know and on the
surface and probably I'd say deeper than
the surface since I do understand a
little bit of this stuff um i think it's
a it's a great idea and I'm excited to
see where it goes in the future

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah and
I thought we can't um I mean we won't we
won't be able to settle the debate on
what's the best economic policy in
general people been debating that for
centuries but 

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah 

*Christian Seberino:*
I don't think that's
gonna I think I think what what we can
offer is we can offer a system where you
know what's going to happen it's
predictable and and will stand by that
and if that's the way to go if that's a
useful way to run a monetary system then
great but that's that's what we can
offer if we try to offer the benevolent
dictator idea we're not really offering
anything that right traditional
governments don't already do so I don't
see the point in trying to go there with
a cryptocurrency 

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah I saw you know
this was discussed a lot on slack and
everyone was pretty much in agreement
that you know we're committing to
looking into this sort of stuff but it's
going to take a lot of research and
careful planning and you know to execute
it properly rather you know standard
haste makes waste what makes waste type
of stuff so you know a lot of great
people are looking into this and doing
their research I'm also that the
proposal that's out there currently on
that a lot of people are talking about
is the it's from either user snap roll
from slack will post the link to his
document in the comments below and also
Chuck wrote an article about snap rolls
proposal will
link that as well it was on medium it
was called instead of a happening at
tithing very TC so if you guys want to
check that out on medium will close the
link there

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah I read those and I I
really appreciate these down stepping up
and sharing their ideas okay and they
even that's out yeah the numbers like
when the the monetary supply is going to
reach the 91st ninety-nine percent of
the time is never going to get and they
really did a lot of work so if anybody's
interested in that definitely check that
out

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah yeah um you know he did a great
job very cool so shout out to snap roll
for that one and also Chuck for that
great article and um anybody that helps
snap-roll and that I'm not mentioning I
apologize but i'll add your names i
guess if you want to put your name on it
will put it in the comments below

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah
one thing was interesting is so bitcoin
they cut their via rewards in half right
every certain know that certain number
of blocks but i thought it was
interesting that they people are
proposing to cut it by ten percent so

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah yeah

*Christian Seberino:*
 because they when you're
dealing with money and people's emotions
you don't want to change anything too
fast so 

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah yes someone someone brought
up that the having was a good thing
because you know it gets a theorem in
the news and it's like this giant event
but then a few other people were talking
and we all kind of came not that this is
necessarily the agreement but a lot of
people were talking about it and they
said you know we're going to be in the
news for um you know stuff development
stuff that we have going on uh and so we
should be focused on a nice you know
safe ten percent down as opposed to this
very violent you know having events that
bitcoin has which do seem to cause a lot
of issues in the community you're not a
lot of issues but some issues in the
community so if we can have leavey eight
that for the miners and developers and
you know the general community if we can
improve on what bitcoin has done you
know it's a step in the right direction
so yeah
 and also also any of you guys
don't want to join and talk about
monetary policy and kind of participate
the community join us on slack will post
a link to join our slack in the in the
description below and there's the
monetary policy channel which will also
link you to that so that's also
Christian I want to ask you about I
guess what are your what are your
personal feelings on that the the
tithing is opposed to the having

*Christian Seberino:*
 so I I
like the idea of hiding just because I
like change to happen slowly I don't
necessarily like the jar everybody's
emotions and stoke their fears so I
would I that again and I'm not an
economist but that seems like the most
sensible thing to do

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah I thought it
was pretty elegant too um so yeah that's
uh that's what's going on I guess as far
as the last Development Report guys that
was put out a few days ago um it's also
next thing on the newsletter I guess we
could talk with everybody about was
Charles had a really great interview uh
for anyone out there listening it
doesn't know it's Charles Hoskinson he's
some in charge of um well I ohk that's
uh that will link you to that as well in
the description below well that's
company that he started um after he left
athyrium he's one of the original
founders of etherium so a very
intelligent guy great guy and will post
his youtube interview that he did with
cripta holics that was really great and
provides a lot of insight into what's
going on in a fear in classic and what
the future might hold forth herein
classic if you guys want to check that
out yeah that's gotta listen to that
right Christian

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah that's one of the
one of the podcasts that I've been
listening to on my drive to and from
work and he had yeah I can i can
certainly recommend that if anybody
wants to check that out one he has a lot
of great ideas as you said he's a smart
guy one thing that really intrigued me
was the how do you make he wants to have
a decentralized way
to make changes to the protocols I know
we all know with the hard fork that how
contentious that was contentious and any
time you make changes people might
wonder you know is this really a
decentralized community who's really in
charge and he was he was discussing
making a way to discuss issues make
changes vote on changes in a
decentralized way so against let
everybody knows what to expect and yeah

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah i think it was in reference to like
the dash model um and I don't think he
said anything necessarily for or against
the dash model because I think I ohk is
doing a lot of research looking into it
and looking at what the pros and cons
are love it but on the boarding the word
interesting definitely comes to mind for
the dash model 

*Christian Seberino:*
yeah
 he's interest in
school

 yeah he seems to be big on the
idea of you know let's let's say in
advance what we're doing and let's be
totally open and you know so there's no
funny business there's no reason to
think 

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah yeah yeahs get everything get
everything out on the floor talk about
it and you know often a lot of
discussion and debate leads to better
ideas for what's going on mmm but you
can do going forward with something so
um let's go to uh you know that's in
reference to the crypto holics episode
and also there's a we're talking about
the your article that you actually let
out um MIT block chains are weird an
introduction to the strangeness which I
felt was a really great article if you
want to talk about that

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah so I like
like you and everybody I've heard the
term block chain and everybody's been
getting excited about it and I you know
people say its revolutionary and I was
just thinking what what is so
revolutionary about it and it kept
bugging me I mean I could answer all the
questions on the on the technology but
what I was just trying to think what
what is it that's special how can I say
it
in the simplest possible way and that's
kind of what made me to write the
article and it was kind of what I was
saying a few minutes ago they in my
opinion that one thing that's
revolutionary is is not having anybody
in charge and that's what I think is the
new thing that it provides and so
everybody's trying to now do everything
social media right lamp rattles
everything without anybody in charge and
and so to kind of make that more
understandable to people I brought up
the analogy of how free markets work
that way that nobody is in charge and
and by and you know almost seems almost
miraculous that that seems to work
better not only does it work it it works
having people truck work work yeah own
interest ends up making things work out
better than if they tried to

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah yeah
like it's almost like a you know trust
its trust list in the same way that
something is priceless something it's
priceless is worth a ton and something
that's trust trust list is actually
extremely trustworthy 

*Christian Seberino:*
yes yes

*Carlo Vicari: *
 I think
that's pretty funny it's when you take
the decision makings and all the
important stuff away from people that
can tamper with it that it becomes an
extremely trustworthy system

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah you
know competition on how yeah there's
competition is the important for free
market and interesting that they also
make their foundational the block chains
so maybe there's some deep thing there's
a philosopher from the they write a
paper about someday or something but
competition is a core to both

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah yeah
definitely um so I think that's those
are definitely important concepts for um
you know blockchain and crypto currency
and you know this whole decentralized
movement going forward in general um so
uh also there was a interesting
discussion going on on reddit for
anybody out there listening who wasn't
taking part or wasn't looking into it
and they were talking about
like what immutability means and what it
doesn't mean and how that can be
sometimes a you know a difficult thing
to define for some people but I think in
the affair in classic community where um
pretty you know we have our bearings and
what we know it means even though some
people not in the community try to twist
twist what we what we say and what we
want to do and what our objectives are
into weird and strange ways you know

*Christian Seberino: *
yeah yeah what makes it a good thing is
that the etherium hard fork that
recovered the Dow funds didn't didn't
technically change the blockchain what
it did was it effective how the state is
made from the block chain and so and so
that people think okay immutability just
means that you don't change the
blockchain but it people mean more than
that so I was thinking about this and I
agree there it we it might be a little
tricky to pin down exactly technically
what people mean by immutability but I
think it at least means don't change the
stupid blockchain leave that alone that
we can agree that ever I think everybody
would agree that it at least means that


*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah I think um you know what I try to
when people talk to me about it what I
try to you know explain is that I
whatever transaction took place on the
blockchain won't be altered if there's a
transaction that took place on the
blockchain we're not going to alter it
and um you know that's and people try to
bring up and this this was a big slogan
for the et Cie community which became
problematic unfortunately the code is
law and so you can just never change
anything ever again but that would be
kind of a silly thing to even try to
stick to because that would mean that
you created this piece of software
perfectly the very first time which is
obviously nearly actually we don't have
to say nearly it's impossible to do

*Christian Seberino:*
yeah yeah so and also without changing
the you don't want to change
transactions but the previous heart a
recent heart forks that both systems did
raised of course the gas prices to to to
protect against denial-of-service
attacks but what's interesting is that
is it somebody might have an idea of the
way these systems work and then a month
later after the hard for say wait it's
not working that way somebody could be a
stickler and say well no no that was a
violation of immutability too so that
just shows that it's kind of it's tricky
to pin down exactly

*Carlo Vicari: *
 say
 I would say one
of the important concepts is for you
know like one analogy that I was saying
is let's say you were to add not let's
say this actually happened when they
added the three-point line in the NBA
you don't after the three-point line is
added go and change a bunch of scores
that already took place the year before
or 20 years before mhm you know so
changing the rules as long as those new
rules apply going forward is a little
bit different than something that
already took place and then you're
trying to change the score um after the
fact 

*Christian Seberino:*
yeah 

*Carlo Vicari: *
is a little bit different yes
so but yeah it's um it's definitely a
tricky thing but I think we have our
principles down pretty solidly and I
like where we're going on the way
forward so another couple of things we
could talk about uh just talk about the
community in general for anybody
listening that doesn't know out there
we've got a Twitter account that will
post in the description below you know
it's got a ton of followers a really
active reddit really active slack on
telegram group with you know over 780
users on there on 781 is account now by
my estimation we've got a wee chat
although it's mostly a lot of the Asian
interests and Asian community
participating on there miners you can
check gas tracker I owe you can see what
the big mining pools are and what's
going on with the hash rate and
I think one of the last things I want to
talk about it's a kind of a start start
a lot of buzz in the community christian
now just to be clear everyone listening
this is not an official announcement in
any way but it's in reference to the
major Chinese exchange btcc um possibly
starting trading of etherium classic
according to coin telegraphed which if
anyone does read them their the
cryptocurrency or blockchain news
website that has the cartoons they do a
lot of the drawings you know it kind of
distinguishes them from a lot of other
different news sites so it's pretty
interesting

*Christian Seberino:*
 don't then encourage other
entities to support ET c and who knows
oh and up

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah yeah but um so it's an
interesting article and i checked it out
but i got i think um it's just based off
a couple of tweets back and forth but i
do know that asia and the international
community is very interested in fear in
classic so even if this article is kind
of just a little bit of rumor mill I
definitely think there's some truth to
it based on it the interest that I see
over there so i was wonder if you you
got a chance to read some of that
article when you think 

*Christian Seberino:*
uh I just thought
the headline but I didn't read into the
details but but yeah if that's if that's
really true i think that would be great
but I'm kind of just taken away and see
attitude right now 

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah it's pretty new
was actually um looks like it was just
posted on reddit a few hours ago um so
it's it's it's relatively new i think
it's been out for more than a few hours
but a lot of buzz going on talking about
it and um so what are uh what are some
things uh you see going on in the
community last week that maybe you want
to talk about with the viewer or the
listeners out there or something you're
working on what I know you probably have
an article that you're thinking about
writing and

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah I was not going to
maybe doing something on monetary policy
something on smart contracts
explaining the basics of those I know
that the monetary policy something as
you said everybody's thinking about and
but I have to figure figure out how to
write that you know not trying to make
pronouncements as if farmer economist so
that's one thing i'm working on yeah

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah yeah i know there was um someone
also posted something about uh Haskell
and smart contracts um again this is
this some stuff I'm not really into as
much as you

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah yeah yeah let's talk
about that so we V at the Dow attacked
got everybody interested in gosh how can
we make smart contracts secure and
Charles actually mentioned some
languages he's looking into in that
interview that that you mentioned and so
there's there's an article on why people
should check out Haskell Haskell is this
academic functional language that's
become very practical even though it had
academic beginnings and a lot of people
think that that would be a great
language to make a et Cie smart
contracts because you can make certain
guarantees right especially if there's
lots of money involved so

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah yeah he
talks of a mission critical software and
you know the differences between
security and accessibility and for
something like ET c or for something
like a block chain or cryptocurrency um
you would want security um trumping
accessibility and stuff like that

*Christian Seberino:*
 yes
and I personally always thought
functional programming was something
that it was interesting but I didn't
know how practical it was it was
something I'd like to get into and I
thought about getting a job in Haskell
at one point but this is nice now that I
know it's not nice that the Dawa hat
attack happened but if any good can come
out of that bad event that if people are
now thinking of functional programming
and Haskell more than that could
hopefully leak a lot of good things

*Carlo Vicari: *
yeah like a silver-lining type thing
you're talking about I go 

*Christian Seberino:*
yes yeah

*Carlo Vicari: *
 you
got you gotta you know and something bad
happens you gotta try to try to find the
good in it I guess yeah so that's that's
definitely the one if you know it may be
something like the Dow that shifts
everybody towards these um you know
safer I don't want to say safer but more
secure programming languages and you
know it just helps the space the block
chain space in general

*Christian Seberino:*
 yeah yeah nama
it's not like this is a new field
there's been dead right research it's
just that not everybody cares about or
knows about it like I would I don't I've
never written an air traffic controlling
system but I assume that they know all
about right secure software your
software that runs nuclear power plants
but it's 

*Carlo Vicari: *
right right

*Christian Seberino:*
 it's nice to see it
this the stuff get applied to more and
more sectors of the economy and and so
that that's what's exciting to me is is
having more developers talking about it
excited about it using it good

*Carlo Vicari: *
 um so I
gave everybody a quick rundown of the
dev report and kind of what's going on
inside the community and what's going on
in the inside slack inside telegram uh
so thanks so thanks Christian for for
joining you know where guys are really
doing this every week for everybody out
there listening
so if there's any thing you guys want to
know about or anything you're interested
in us talking about leave it in the
comments below and we'll definitely get
to it 

*Christian Seberino:*
yes we love people

*Carlo Vicari: *
 yeah absolutely
all right Christian take care all right
have it going
